{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13600\viewh11680\viewkind0
{\*\background {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbymargin\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fillColor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}}}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf1 ~ 0-black.png \
\
Hello, friends, I'll be giving a short lecture about my thesis, or rather on the process of working on my thesis, but I really just see it as a lecture about process.\
\
For reasons that might become clear, I'm going to ask that you please refrain from taking any photos or videos during the lecture.\
\
~ 0-verde-night.jpg \
\
This is Val Verde at night, in the house where I live on top of the hill, on the back porch, where I sometimes smoke a cigarette and watch the cars drift in from Haisley Canyon road. \
\
Somewhat releated, I used to live in Nacogdoches, far off in east Texas, and I would frequently drive to Austin and back. It's a pretty surreal drive, lots of harsh turns, always surrounded by forest, up until you hit the major highways at least. I mention this, because on my drives back to Austin, I would invite whatever ghosts were stuck in Nacogdoches along with me for the car ride.\
\
I don't believe in ghosts anymore, but when I stare off at the incoming cars from my back porch, I like to imagine them coming home from a long trip.\
\
~ 0-title-card.jpg\
\
~ 0-blank.jpg\
\
~ 1-animal-profile.jpg\
\
This is Animal. I really wasn't sure what I was building when I started this. I knew I wanted some sort of performative interface, one where 
\f1\b my
\f0\b0  physical actions had a direct relation to the physical actions of the object, but I didn't expect to end up with something that had a personality, a character.\
\
~ 1-animal-verde.jpg\
\
This is the night before I first performed with it. It was so cold that night. This was the setup I had while I was writing its code, unknowingly giving it a personality. The night that I did perform with it, I recreated this setup. I decided that the process of experimenting with the object would be the most interesting part about it, so I had a sort of theater where I interacted with Animal, almost as if I didn't know what was going to happen next. Me showcasing a process became what I held onto throughout this year.\
\
That night was great. \
\
~ 1-sean-tamsen.jpg\
\
I have these friends that I left behind in Austin, Sean and Tamsen. While I was in California, they moved off to Massachusetts. It's weird, I always imagined that I'd move back to Austin after I'd graduate; I'd get selfishly upset when I'd hear about my friends moving away like I did. You want your home to stand still, you want it to wait for you, at least until you get back. But your friends have their own process.\
\
They ended up moving again, this time to Los Angeles. They had been in L.A. for about two weeks before that night, that night being the night of the performance, and so they came up to CalArts to watch me perform Animal. It was surreal seeing them, and it was probably their first experience with experimental music. It was cold that night as well.\
\
~ 1-verde-rain.jpg\
\
This is cold in Val Verde.\
\
~ 1-scout.jpg\
\
This is Sean and Tamsen's dog, Scout. This is cold in Massachusetts.\
\
~ 1-animal-setup.jpg\
\
This is the setup of Animal that I had for the DEDCAT concert last fall. DEDCAT was a show, a festival type environment, four to five hours of music. I again recreated the process of expermenting with the object. \
\
The space was great, it had an old elevator shaft that I got to operate, and it was the only way into the space; I got to lead the audience down the old elevator shaft as part of the performance. It opened up to the bottom floor, which was a dusty old loading zone next to a back alley.\
\
~ 1-animal-dedcat.jpg\
\
I got to perform Animal four times that night; by the last one I was pretty drunk, but I think that made it better; that's when I took this photo. The next week I looked back and thought that this was the happiest night of my life.. it was an exuberant happiness, a sort of manic and uncontrolled glee, it was quickly fleeting.\
\
~ 1-austin-happy.jpg\
\
This is me with my friends in Austin in 2008. I remember feeling a different happiness that night, it was poignant. I remember feeling that I didn't want to be anywhere else, I was merely content. \
\
~ 1-b-animal-dedcat.jpg\
\
I have trouble understanding which happiness is more important to me.\
\
~ 1-austin-happy.jpg\
\
This was comfortable.\
\
~ 1-b-animal-dedcat.jpg\
\
This is exciting.\
\
~ 1-verde-sky.jpg\
\
Peaceful.\
\
~ 1-b-animal-dedcat.jpg\
\
~ 1-austin-happy.jpg\
\
~ 1-desk.jpg \
\
This is where Animal lives now, behind that desk piled with crap.\
\
~ 1-blank.png\
\
~ 2-red-wall.jpg\
\
Red Mitsubishi. \
\
2-red-wide.jpg\
\
This is my installation from this semester, it consists of eighteen solenoids attached to the three walls of the WaveCave. The installation was created in homage to my 2000 Red Mistubishi Mirage. I had this whole text that explained how the car was a part of me, how I was sad when it was gone, I talked about the idea of keeping objects that have no purpose, or even creating objects that have no purpose, and all that; but I think the installation mostly highlighted the process of the something breaking down. Things falling apart, as they break down, they inflict damage on the other.\
\
2-red-car-1.jpg\
\
I had that car for 15 years, and then I totaled it in a accident off the 5. It got me from Texas to California, back when I first started at CalArts.\
\
2-red-trailer.jpg\
\
That's the trailer I first lived at here; I was so scared my first two weeks. I remember I reinstalled WoW and ate pre-cooked chickens from Ralphs up until school started. I had just left, much like a lot of us, all my friends.\
\
~ 2-friends.jpg\
\
I know Andy and was initially resentful, Sean was happy about it, I mean he left too. But eventually my friends all got on without me, they even all met up with Sean and Tamsen in Massachusett's during my third semester at CalArts. Or was it New York? I don't know, I wasn't there.\
\
~ 2-solenoid.jpg\
\
But yea the solenoids, they eventually die, being driven long enough. They don't last too long, maybe a few days, but I guess that could be years in installation time. \
\
~ 2-dead.jpg\
\
They fall apart.\
\
~ 2-damage.jpg\
\
And this is the damage that solenoid did to the wall.\
\
~ 2-red-car-2.jpg\
\
It fell apart.\
\
~ 2-truck.jpg\
\
This is the damage my car did to that truck.\
\
~ 2-bus.jpg\
\
This become how I travelled home, it's pretty great actually. One of the best things about taking the bus to Val Verde, is walking up that hill at night.  \
\
~ 2-verde-night.jpg\
\
Where I live, again, is atop a fairly large hill, it's a steep climb. The headlights coming over the bend from Haisley Canyon (the travellers coming home), they're angled so when they first appear - they shine directly on the road that leads up to the hill. The first time I noticed it was amazing, it scared me, having an unknown light cast my shadow onto the hillside; I'd only ever experience that if my car had died. \
\
This time the travellers were there to greet me. They were welcoming me home.\
\
~ 2-train.jpg\
\
I also ended up taking the train a decent amount, this is on the way back from Sean and Tamsen's.\
\
~ 2-technology.jpg\
\
Yea, that day.\
\
~ 2-verde-cold-rain.jpg\
\
It was cold that day as well. It doesn't really get cold in Austin anymore, Texas has become a perpetual summer.\
\
Still, I miss it.\
\
~ friends-1.jpg\
~ friends-2.jpg\
~ friends-3.jpg\
~ friends-4.jpg\
~ friends-5.jpg\
\
~ 2-blank.png,\
\
~ 3-first-beast.jpg, \
\
This is Beast, a mechatronic performance. It's sorta like Animal, I didn't really know what I was doing up until I performed it. \
\
~ 3-beast-performing.jpg\
\
Really, I was sure that the programming wouldn't crash, but I was so busy leading up to the performance, I had forgotten how I was supposed to respond to the object. There was so much improvisation, true improvisation, I really felt like I was discovering the piece alongside the audience. That was a happy night, I was ecstatic, but controlled. So many friends were there.\
\
~ 3-austin-happy.jpg\
\
That happiness was comparable to this night.\
\
~ 3-b-beast-performing.jpg\
\
The piece itself, as a result of me forgetting my programming, was dependent on me feeding the object sound, and the object providing me sound in return. Cooperation rather than manipulation. If I fucked with it, it would fuck with me.\
\
~ 3-second-beast.jpg\
\
This is the second time I performed with it. I didn't touch the code much, they wanted me to shorten the piece a bit, but I just left it the same and performed with it a bit faster. This time though, so much fucked up with it. The leads fell off the piezo contact mics, so I ended up soldering on stage (which of course was part of the performance, also it sounds pretty great soldering with the piezos plugged in). But still I was distracted, I lost the composition. There was a definite loss of communication. \
\
~ 3-amy.jpg\
\
~ 3-b-second-beast.jpg\
\
If I had won the first performance, if there was soemthing to win, I definitely lost the second. If it truly was a beast, it would've bit me.\
\
~ 3-bit.jpg\
\
Sorry for being so literal, but I really wanted a way to get to this. This is from a dog that bit me. \
\
Somewhat related, once a human bit me.\
\
Really, I was maybe ten years younger, working at Burlington Coat Factory. I was sleeping in the lunch room during a break, and the intercom called for security to come to the front of the store. Well, Burlington Coat Factory doesn't have a security, it really just means "Hey, if you're down to get involved in some unnecessary drama, come to the front of the store."  It's close to Easter in this story, remember that.\
\
So I went up there, and saw the situation. Marie, my manager was standing close to a very tall woman. This tall woman, I had to assume was being accused of shoplifting. Marie knows she couldn't really detain her, she just sorta stood in front of her to stop here from leaving. So naturally, I joined her and created a human wall.\
\
Looking back, I would've just let the shoplifter go, I mean, why get involved in this shit? But, lets excuse this story from any sensible logic that a 24 year old should have.\
\
So I created this human wall with Marie, and Courtney, another cashier, joined as well. There are ther three of us, merely blocking this very tall (and strong) woman from leaving, but she's pushing on us, getting upset, things are about to blow.\
\
The shoplifter grabs a hold of Courtney's red hair, the four of us all get entangled in this ridiculous clump and fall onto an Easter display. Stuffed Easter bunnies fall to the floor, and then we all fall together in this clump, I ended up on top of the shoplifter, with my elbow on her neck. She lunges forward, and I instinctually put my hands around her throat. \
\
That was weird, the chokehold, I didn't even think about it, again, it was instinctual. You do weird fucking things when you're pushed the right now. She relaxes soon after, and I release the hold and continue to pin to the ground. I didn't even notice, but during that lunge, she had bitten me in my bicep. No fucking shit, she bit through a grey hoodie and a button up. \
\
After she acclimated to me being on top of her, she yelled out the following "Get your dick offa my leg." Marie, my manager, responded "Don't worry, it's on my foot." That was strange. \
\
The cops arrived, saw me pinning her down, told her if she acted up they would tase her, made sure she understood, then took care of the rest.\
\
I went to the nearby Pro-Med, and got a free tennitus shot.\
\
~ 3-b-second-beast.jpg\
\
~ 3-third-beast.jpg\
\
Anyway.\
\
This was the third time I performed with it. I had plastidipped the contact mics this time, ensured at least that part of it wouldn't fuck up. Still, there was an array-out-of-bounds error toward the end that changed the ending, I'd call it a tie. I guess more of a mutual falling out.\
\
~ 3-fourth-beast.jpg\
\
This was the fourth time I performed with it. It went much like the last time, I think I've settled with it finally. I'm pretty comfortable with it, a bit too comfortable, I know its ticks, it knows mine.\
\
~ couple-1.jpg\
~ couple-2.jpg\
~ couple-3.jpg\
~ couple-4.jpg\
~ couple-5.jpg\
\
~ 3-blank.jpg\
\
~ 4-amy.jpg\
\
That's Amy, she's wonderful, funny, beautiful. She's still my best friend, even if we don't talk.\
\
~ 4-dogs.jpg\
\
Those are the dogs I left with her.\
\
~ 4-val-verde.jpg\
\
I used to imagine them coming out here. They'd have so much room.\
\
~ 4-new-home.jpg,\
\
And this is my last flight back to LA, this was also the first flight where I felt that I was coming home rather than leaving. \
\
I know this is all a bit somber, but..\
\
~ 4-new-years.jpg\
\
Jordan, Manu, Jon, Jarvey.\
\
~ 4-wulf.jpg\
\
Luke and Ben.\
\
~ 4-outer.jpg\
\
Golden, Elsa, Zack. \
\
~ 4-mfa.jpg\
\
Martin, Tim.\
\
~ 4-davy.jpg\
\
Davy.\
\
~ 4-blank.png\
\
And so many more.\
\
~ 4-manu.jpg\
\
..the process, right?\
\
I called this lecture "Working on My Thesis", because I started this joke, whenever Luke or Shuarjya would see me walking through the halls, they'd ask me what I was up to, I told them I was working on my thesis, when I was clearly doing one or another random project.\
\
But in earnest I also named it that in efforts that this process would unearth something worth writing about. But who knows really right, it's all just a process of moving. We're all travelling. \
\
This is the 40hz sine wave shaman, blazing a trail through the Val Verde hillside.\
\
~ video}